Which of the following characteristics would not necessarily suggest that a rock we found is a meteorite.	It has a fusion crust	It contains solidified spherical droplets	It is highly processed	It has different elemental composition than earth	C
Which is not a similarity between Saturn and Jupiter's atmospheres?	a composition dominated by hydrogen and helium	the presence of belts zones and storms	an equatorial wind speed of more than 900 miles per hour	significant "shear" between bands of circulation at different latitudes	C
Jupiter's orbital distance is roughly 5 AU. How many times brighter would the Sun have to be for Europa to receive the same solar flux that we currently receive on Earth (1380W/m2)?	100 times brighter	25 times brighter	2 times brighter	50 times brighter	B
The Pleiades is an open star cluster that plays a role in many ancient stories and is well-known for containing ... bright stars.	5	7	9	12	B
The nebular theory of the formation of the solar system successfully predicts all but one of the following. Which one does the theory not predict?	Planets orbit around the Sun in nearly circular orbits in a flattened disk.	the equal number of terrestrial and jovian planets	the craters on the Moon	asteroids Kuiper-belt comets and the Oort cloud	B
Where is the crater from the impact that is believed to be responsible for the mass extinction of dinosaurs 65 million years ago?	Tunguska Siberia.	Chicxulub Crater Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico.	Quebec Canada.	Meteor Crater in Arizona.	B
In addition to the conditions required for any solar eclipse what must also be true in order for you to observe a total solar eclipse?	The Earth must lie completely within the Moon's penumbra.	The Moon's penumbra must touch the area where you are located.	The Earth must be near aphelion in its orbit of the Sun.	The Moon's umbra must touch the area where you are located.	D
What effect or effects would be most significant if the Moon's orbital plane were exactly the same as the ecliptic plane?	Solar eclipses would be much rarer.	Solar eclipses would last much longer.	Solar eclipses would be much more frequent.	Solar eclipses would not last as long.	C
What type of radiation causes a black hole to evaporate over time?	Schwarzschild radiation	Planck radiation	Kolmogorov radiation	Hawking radiation	D
Approximately how far away is the Andromeda Galaxy?	1.7 million light years	2.1 million light years	2.5 million light years	3.2 million light years	C
Our current best observations show that Pluto has	one medium sized satellite and two small satellites.	no satellites.	one large satellite and three small satellites.	one large satellite.	A
Pluto's extremely cold (~40 K) surface is composed of:	mainly water ice which always remains frozen	nitrogen methane and carbon monoxide ices which sublimate into an atmosphere near perihelion	nitrogen methane and carbon monoxide ices which always remain frozen	roughly half ices and half rocky materials	B
How do scientists know that the majority of meteorites come from the asteroid belt?	The spectra of some meteorites are similar to the spectra of asteroids in the asteroid belt.	The asteroid belt is the only possible source of meteorites therefore they must originate there.	Collisions are common in the asteroid belt and we can track the fragments from their source asteroid to the Earth where they become meteorites.	High levels of Iridum have been detected in both asteroids and meteorites therefore meteorites come from the asteroid belt.	A
Which factor s most important in determining the history of volanism and tectonism on a planet?	size of the planet	presence of an atmosphere	distance from the sun	rotation period	A
The astronomical unit parsec (pc) plays a crucial role in astronomy. One parsec is equal to about 3.26 light-years. How is one parsec defined in astronomy?	Distance at which one astronomical unit measures one arcsecond from Earth.	Orbital distance of the solar system around the center of the Milky Way in one year.	Effective distance of the solar wind (i.e. the radius of the heliosphere).	Historical distance to the brightest star Sirius.	A
The term Schwarzschild radius usually describes properties of ...	red dwarfs.	pulsars.	black holes.	galaxies.	C
Moons cause/contribute to which of the following?	stability of particles within rings.	gravitational effects at ring edges as the moons pass by.	gaps between rings.	Moons contribute to all of the above.	D
The belts and zones of Jupiter are	names for the layers of gaseous and metallic hydrogen deep within the planet.	alternating bands of rising and falling air at different latitudes.	alternating regions of charged particles in Jupiter's magnetic field.	regions of the plasma torus created by ions from Io's volcanoes	B
The two moons of Mars are called ...	Tritos and Desmos	Tritos and Deimos	Phobos and Tritos	Phobos and Deimos	D
The visible part of the electromagnetic spectrum is between ...	240 to 680 nm.	360 to 620 nm.	380 to 740 nm.	420 to 810 nm.	C
What is true about the rotation of a solid disk?	The velocity is the same on every point on the disk	The part closer to the axis has a longer period	The period of rotation is the same on every point on the disk	The part closer to the axis has a shorter period	C
The famous Drake equation attempts to answer the following question:	Will the Sun become a black hole?	Is the universe infinitely large?	How old is the visible universe?	Are we alone in the universe?	D
20000 years from now ...	The Moon will be closer to the Earth and the Earth’s day will be longer.	The Moon will be closer to the Earth and the Earth’s day will be shorter.	The Moon will be further from the Earth and the Earth’s day will be longer.	The Moon will be further from the Earth and the Earth’s day will be shorter.	C
What element is most common among the Jovian Planets?	Hydrogen	Helium	Carbon	Oxygen	A
Imagine that the Earth was instantly moved to an orbit three times further away from the Sun. How much longer would a year be?	exactly 3 times longer	about 5.2 times longer	Not enough information. It will depend on the inclination of the new orbit	The length of the year wouldn't change because the Earth's mass stays the same.	B
Why can't we see the Sun's corona except during total solar eclipses?	The corona is made up mostly of charged particles which aren't luminous.	It's much too cool to emit visible light	We can't see magnetic fields	It's too diffuse	D
How do we think the "hot Jupiters" around other stars were formed?	They where formed when their stars flung material out into the system in a process similar to planetary fission.	They formed as gas giants beyond the frost line and then migrated inwards.	They formed as dense rocky planets close to the star in the same orbits that they are seen today.	They formed as gas giants close to the star in the same orbits that they are seen today.	B
The resolution of a telescope is a measure of its:	Ability to magnify distant objects	Ability to measure the angular separation of objects	Ability to measure the distance between objects	Light-collecting efficiency	B
The axis of the Earth is tilted at an angle of approximately ... relative to the orbital plane around the Sun.	20.3 degrees	21.4 degrees	22.7 degrees	23.5 degrees	D
What is the source of the material that causes meteor showers?	Asteroid impacts elsewhere in the solar system throw sand-sized particles into space and occasionally the Earth passes through a cloud of these particles which burn up in our atmosphere and cause a meteor shower.	Near-Earth asteroids gradually disintegrate and spread out along their orbital paths. When the Earth passes through the orbit of an asteroid we are bombarded by sand-sized particles that cause a meteor shower.	Near-Earth asteroids disintegrate as they enter Earth's atmosphere creating hundreds of bright meteors that appear to radiate from a single location in the sky.	The nuclei of comets gradually disintegrate and spread out along their orbital paths. When the Earth passes through the orbit of an comet we are bombarded by sand-sized particles that cause a meteor shower.	D
